Newsletters: add 229 (2022-12-07) (#950)
bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io: _posts/en/newsletters/2022-12-07-newsletter.md

lang: en
---
This week's newsletter describes an implementation of ephemeral anchors
and includes our regular sections with the summary of a Bitcoin Core PR
Review Club meeting, announcements of new releases and release
candidates, and descriptions of notable changes to popular Bitcoin
infrastructure projects.

## News

- **Ephemeral anchors implementation:** Greg Sanders [posted][sanders
  ephemeral] to the Bitcoin-Dev mailing list that he's implemented his
  idea for ephemeral anchors (see [Newsletter #223][news223 anchors]).
  [Anchor outputs][topic anchor outputs] are an existing technique made
  available by Bitcoin Core [CPFP carve outs][topic cpfp carve out] and
  used in the LN protocol to ensure that both parties involved in a
  contract can [CPFP][topic cpfp] fee bump a transaction related to that
  contract.  Anchor outputs have several downsides---some of them
  fundamental (see [Newsletter #224][news224 anchors])---but others
  which can be addressed.

    Ephemeral anchors build on the [v3 transaction relay proposal][topic
    v3 transaction relay] to allow v3 transactions to include a
    zero-value output paying a script that is essentially `OP_TRUE`,

>     which permits that transaction to be CPFP fee bumped anyone on the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    which permits that transaction to be CPFP fee bumped by anyone on the
```

  contract can [CPFP][topic cpfp] fee bump a transaction related to that
  contract.  Anchor outputs have several downsides---some of them
  fundamental (see [Newsletter #224][news224 anchors])---but others
  which can be addressed.

    Ephemeral anchors build on the [v3 transaction relay proposal][topic
    v3 transaction relay] to allow v3 transactions to include a
    zero-value output paying a script that is essentially `OP_TRUE`,
    which permits that transaction to be CPFP fee bumped anyone on the
    network with a spendable UTXO.  The fee-bumping child transaction
    can itself be RBF fee bumped by anyone else with a spendable UTXO.
    In combination with other parts of the v3 transaction relay
    proposal, it can be hoped that this will eliminate all policy-based
    concerns about [transaction pinning attacks][topic transaction
    pinning] against time-sensitive contract protocol transactions.

    Additionally, because anyone can fee bump a transaction containing
    an ephemeral output, it can be used for contract protocols involving
    more than two participants.  The existing Bitcoin Core carve out

>     rule only reliably works for two participants and [previous

Reviewer 2: Link to https://bitcoinops.org/en/topics/cpfp-carve-out/ ?

    attempts][bitcoin core #18725] to increase it required an
    arbitrary upper limit on participants.

>     Sander's [implementation][bitcoin core #26403] of ephemeral anchors

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    Sanders's [implementation][bitcoin core #26403] of ephemeral anchors
```

    makes it possible to begin testing the idea (along with the other v3
    transaction relay behaviors previously implemented by that
    proposal's author).

## Bitcoin Core PR Review Club

*In this monthly section, we summarize a recent [Bitcoin Core PR Review Club][]
meeting, highlighting some of the important questions and answers.  Click on a
question below to see a summary of the answer from the meeting.*

FIXME:larryruane

{% include functions/details-list.md
  q0="FIMXE"
  a0="FIXME"
  a0link="https://bitcoincore.reviews/26265#l-FIXME"
%}

## Releases and release candidates

*New releases and release candidates for popular Bitcoin infrastructure
projects.  Please consider upgrading to new releases or helping to test
release candidates.*

> - [BTCPay 1.7.1][] is the latest release of the most widely used

Reviewer 3: I'd suggest using the full name here for consistency and clarity, even though the shorter variant is correct as well.
```suggestion
- [BTCPay Server 1.7.1][] is the latest release of the most widely used
```

parameter values without having to name every one.

- [Core Lightning #5722][] adds [documentation][grpc doc] about how to
  use the GRPC interface plugin.

- [Eclair #2513][] updates how it uses the Bitcoin Core wallet to ensure
  it always uses a [bech32][topic bech32] address (segwit output).  This
  is the result of [Bitcoin Core #23789][] (see [Newsletter
  #181][news181 bcc23789]) where the project addressed a privacy
  concern for adopters of new output types (e.g. [taproot][topic
  taproot]).  Previously, a user who set their wallet default address
  type to taproot would also create taproot change outputs when they
  paid someone.  If they paid someone who didn't use taproot, it was
  easy for third parties to determine which output was the payment (the
  non-taproot output) and which was the change output (the taproot
  output).  After the change to Bitcoin Core, it would default to trying
  to use the same type of change output as the paid output, e.g. a
  payment to a native segwit output would also result in a native segwit
  change output.

    However, the LN protocol requires certain output types.  For

>     example, a P2WPKH output can't be used to open an LN channel.

Reviewer 2: Is this supposed to say "a P2PKH output can't be used to open an LN channel?" I don't know 100% what the requirements are but based on the summary "ensure it always uses a segwit output," I assume a non-segwit output type would be a better example here?

Author: Whoops, I guess my fingers typed the `W` when I meant to say P2PKH.  Will fix, thanks!

    For that reason, users of Eclair with Bitcoin Core need to ensure
    they don't generate change outputs of an LN-incompatible type.

- [Rust Bitcoin #1415][] begins using the [Kani Rust Verifier][] to
  prove some properties of Rust Bitcoin's code.  This complements other
  continuous integration tests performed on the code, such as fuzzing.

- [BTCPay Server #4238][] adds an invoice refund endpoint to BTCPay's

>   Greenfield API, a more recent API different from the original Bitpay-inspired API.

Reviewer 3: (not that I care too much about the correct spelling of a company made obsolete by the very software discussed in context)
```suggestion
  Greenfield API, a more recent API different from the original BitPay-inspired API.
```

---
title: 'Bitcoin Optech Newsletter #229'
permalink: /en/newsletters/2022/12/07/
name: 2022-12-07-newsletter
slug: 2022-12-07-newsletter
type: newsletter
layout: newsletter
lang: en
---
This week's newsletter describes an implementation of ephemeral anchors
and includes our regular sections with the summary of a Bitcoin Core PR
Review Club meeting, announcements of new releases and release
candidates, and descriptions of notable changes to popular Bitcoin
infrastructure projects.

## News

- **Ephemeral anchors implementation:** Greg Sanders [posted][sanders
  ephemeral] to the Bitcoin-Dev mailing list that he's implemented his
  idea for ephemeral anchors (see [Newsletter #223][news223 anchors]).
  [Anchor outputs][topic anchor outputs] are an existing technique made
  available by Bitcoin Core [CPFP carve outs][topic cpfp carve out] and
  used in the LN protocol to ensure that both parties involved in a
  contract can [CPFP][topic cpfp] fee bump a transaction related to that
  contract.  Anchor outputs have several downsides---some of them
  fundamental (see [Newsletter #224][news224 anchors])---but others

>   which can be addressed.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  that can be addressed.
```

    Ephemeral anchors build on the [v3 transaction relay proposal][topic
    v3 transaction relay] to allow v3 transactions to include a
    zero-value output paying a script that is essentially `OP_TRUE`,
    which permits that transaction to be CPFP fee bumped anyone on the
    network with a spendable UTXO.  The fee-bumping child transaction
    can itself be RBF fee bumped by anyone else with a spendable UTXO.
    In combination with other parts of the v3 transaction relay

>     proposal, it can be hoped that this will eliminate all policy-based

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    proposal, it is hoped that this will eliminate all policy-based
```

    concerns about [transaction pinning attacks][topic transaction
    pinning] against time-sensitive contract protocol transactions.

    Additionally, because anyone can fee bump a transaction containing
    an ephemeral output, it can be used for contract protocols involving
    more than two participants.  The existing Bitcoin Core carve out
    rule only reliably works for two participants and [previous
    attempts][bitcoin core #18725] to increase it required an
    arbitrary upper limit on participants.

    Sander's [implementation][bitcoin core #26403] of ephemeral anchors

>     makes it possible to begin testing the idea (along with the other v3
>     transaction relay behaviors previously implemented by that
>     proposal's author).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    makes it possible to begin testing the idea, along with the other v3
    transaction relay behaviors previously implemented by that
    proposal's author.
```

## Bitcoin Core PR Review Club

*In this monthly section, we summarize a recent [Bitcoin Core PR Review Club][]
meeting, highlighting some of the important questions and answers.  Click on a
question below to see a summary of the answer from the meeting.*

[Bump unconfirmed ancestor transactions to target feerate][review club 26152-2]
is a PR by Xekyo (Murch) that improves the accuracy of the wallet's fee
calculation in the case that unconfirmed UTXOs are selected as inputs.
Without the PR, the fee is set too low if the
feerates of some transactions being used as inputs are lower
than that of the transaction being constructed. The PR fixes
this by adding enough fee to "pay for" low-fee unconfirmed source
transactions.

Adjusting the fee to account for these ancestor transactions turns out
to be similar to choosing which transactions to include
in a block, so this PR adds a class called `Miniminer`.

This PR review spanned two weeks,
[Nov23][review club 26152] and [Nov30][review club 26152-2].

{% include functions/details-list.md
  q0="What problem does this PR address?"

>   a0="The wallet fee estimation doesn't take into account that it must also
>       pay for all unconfirmed ancestors with a lower feerate than the target."

Reviewer 2: More precisely, the PR can also detect when it *doesn't* need to pay for ancestors with a lower feerate than the target!
```suggestion
  a0="The wallet fee estimation doesn't take into account that it may also
      need to pay for unconfirmed ancestors with a lower feerate than the target."
```

  a0link="https://bitcoincore.reviews/26152#30"

  q1=”What does a transaction’s \"cluster\" consist of?”

>   a1=”A transaction's cluster is the set consisting of itself and all

Reviewer 2: Should also mention that ancestors and descendants are included? "All connected" is underdefined.

      \"connected\" transactions. A sibling, i.e. a child of
      your parent, who is neither your ancestor nor your descendant,
      would be part of your cluster.
  a1link="https://bitcoincore.reviews/26152#72"

  q2="This PR introduces `MiniMiner` which duplicates some of the
      actual miner's algorithms; would it have been better to
      unify these two implementations through refactoring?"
  a2="We only need to operate on a cluster and not the entire mempool,
      and don't need to apply any of the checks that `BlockAssembler`
      does. It was also suggested to do this calculation without
      holding the mempool lock. We'd also need to change the block
      assembler to be tracking bump fees rather than building the
      block template; the amount of refactoring necessary was
      equivalent to rewriting."
  a2link="https://bitcoincore.reviews/26152#94"

  q3="Why does the MiniMiner require an entire cluster? Why can’t it
      just use the union of each transaction’s ancestor sets?"
  a3="Some of the ancestors may already have been paid for by some of

>       their other descendants; we don't have to pay with our transaction.

Reviewer 2: To clarify what doesn't need to be paid. A little unclear what "our" transaction would mean
```suggestion
      their other descendants; they don't need to be bumped again.
```

      So we need to include these other descendants in our calculations."
  a3link="https://bitcoincore.reviews/26152#129"

  q4="If transaction X has a higher _ancestor feerate_ than independent
      transaction Y, is it possible for a miner to prioritize Y
      over X (that is, mine Y before X)?"
  a4="Yes. If some of Y's low-feerate ancestors have _other_ decendants that
      are high feerate, Y doesn't need to \"pay\" for those ancestors;

>       we can, in effect, \"remove\" those ancestors from Y's ancestor set,
>       which would then increase Y's _effective_ ancestor feerate."

Reviewer 2: It's not that we can, it's that we *do*. So it's not the "effective" ancestor feerate, it's just the updated ancestor feerate.
```suggestion
      Y's ancestor set is updated to exclude those transactions,
      and Y's new ancestor feerate is higher than before.
```

  a4link="https://bitcoincore.reviews/26152#169"

  q5="Can `CalculateBumpFees()` overestimate, underestimate, both, or
      neither? By how much?"
  a5="It will overestimate if two outputs with overlapping ancestry are
      chosen, since they're bumped independently (without taking the shared

>       ancestry into account). Another way is if an ancestor acquires a
>       high feerate child after we've calculated the bump fees. The

Reviewer 2: "if an ancestor acquires a high feerate child after we've calculated the bump fees" has nothing to do with `CalculateBumpFees()`. IIRC that comment was a scope clarification, i.e. we're only talking about calculating the bump fees before this transaction exists.
```suggestion
      ancestry into account). The
```

      participants couldn't think of a way bump fees could be
      underestimated, but the question was left open."
  a5link="https://bitcoincore.reviews/26152#194"

  q6="The `MiniMiner` is given a list of UTXOs (outpoints) that the wallet
      might be interested in spending. Given an outpoint, what are its 4
      possible states?"

>   a6="It could be a confirmed, or unconfirmed (in the mempool), or unconfirmed
>       but already being spent by an existing transaction in the mempool,
>       or it could be an outpoint that we've never heard of."

Reviewer 2: I think the chat actually concluded with 5 states https://bitcoincore.reviews/26152-2#l-54 (even though the question asked for 4)
```suggestion
  a6="It could be a confirmed and unspent, confirmed but already spent
      by an existing transaction in the mempool, unconfirmed (in the
      mempool) and unspent, or unconfirmed
      but already spent by an existing transaction in the mempool,
      or it could be an outpoint that we've never heard of."
```

  a6link="https://bitcoincore.reviews/26152-2#21"

  q7="What approach is taken in the \"Bump unconfirmed parent txs to target
      feerate\" commit?"
  a7="This commit is the main behavior change of the PR.

>       We take the information we've learned about our UTXOs and change their
>       effective values to reflect the amount of fees that go towards bumping
>       their ancestry to the target feerate. Then we run coin selection as before."

Reviewer 2: I think you want to be a bit more precise what "the information we've learned about our UTXOs" is. I can imagine being confused as there isn't as much of a linear story
```suggestion
      We use the `MiniMiner` to calculate the bump fees (the fees needed to bump
      their respective ancestries to the target feerate) of each UTXO and
      deduct those from their effective values. Then we run coin selection as before."
```

  a7link="https://bitcoincore.reviews/26152-2#100"

  q8="How does the PR handle spending unconfirmed UTXOs with overlapping ancestry?"
  a8="After coin selection, we run the fee-bump algorithm again on the
      _result_ of each coin selection attempt, summing the bump fees;
      from the difference we can know that we've over-bumped due to
      shared ancestry, and give some of the fee back to the change
      output (increase the change value, or add a change output)."
  a8link="https://bitcoincore.reviews/26152-2#111"
%}

## Releases and release candidates

*New releases and release candidates for popular Bitcoin infrastructure
projects.  Please consider upgrading to new releases or helping to test
release candidates.*

- [BTCPay 1.7.1][] is the latest release of the most widely used
  self-hosted payment processing software for Bitcoin.

- [Core Lightning 22.11][] is the next major version of CLN.  It's also

>   be the first release to use a new version numbering scheme.[^semver]

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
the first release to use a new version numbering scheme.[^semver]
```

  Included are several new features, including a new plugin manager,
  and multiple bug fixes.

- [LND 0.15.5-beta][] is a maintenance release of LND.  It contains

>   only minor bug fixes according to its release notes.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  only minor bug fixes, according to its release notes.
```

meeting, highlighting some of the important questions and answers.  Click on a
question below to see a summary of the answer from the meeting.*

[Bump unconfirmed ancestor transactions to target feerate][review club 26152-2]

> is a PR by Xekyo (Murch) that improves the accuracy of the wallet's fee

Reviewer 6: I think that @glozow should be mentioned as a co-author here:

```suggestion
is a PR by Xekyo (Murch) and glozow that improves the accuracy of the wallet's fee
```

> calculation in the case that unconfirmed UTXOs are selected as inputs.

Reviewer 6: We could also point out that we already estimate the correct fees during coin selection which allows us to correctly deprioritize use of unconfirmed UTXOs that require a higher bump fee.

Without the PR, the fee is set too low if the
feerates of some transactions being used as inputs are lower
than that of the transaction being constructed. The PR fixes

> this by adding enough fee to "pay for" low-fee unconfirmed source
> transactions.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
this by adding enough fee to "expedite" low-fee unconfirmed source
transactions to the same feerate as targeted by the new transaction.
```

Adjusting the fee to account for these ancestor transactions turns out
to be similar to choosing which transactions to include

> in a block, so this PR adds a class called `Miniminer`.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
in a block, so this PR adds a class called `MiniMiner`.
```

      equivalent to rewriting."
  a2link="https://bitcoincore.reviews/26152#94"

  q3="Why does the MiniMiner require an entire cluster? Why can’t it
      just use the union of each transaction’s ancestor sets?"
  a3="Some of the ancestors may already have been paid for by some of
      their other descendants; we don't have to pay with our transaction.
      So we need to include these other descendants in our calculations."
  a3link="https://bitcoincore.reviews/26152#129"

  q4="If transaction X has a higher _ancestor feerate_ than independent
      transaction Y, is it possible for a miner to prioritize Y
      over X (that is, mine Y before X)?"
  a4="Yes. If some of Y's low-feerate ancestors have _other_ decendants that
      are high feerate, Y doesn't need to \"pay\" for those ancestors;
      we can, in effect, \"remove\" those ancestors from Y's ancestor set,
      which would then increase Y's _effective_ ancestor feerate."
  a4link="https://bitcoincore.reviews/26152#169"

  q5="Can `CalculateBumpFees()` overestimate, underestimate, both, or
      neither? By how much?"
  a5="It will overestimate if two outputs with overlapping ancestry are

>       chosen, since they're bumped independently (without taking the shared

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
     chosen, since each bumps its ancestors independently (without taking the shared
```

      ancestry into account). Another way is if an ancestor acquires a
      high feerate child after we've calculated the bump fees. The
      participants couldn't think of a way bump fees could be

>       underestimated, but the question was left open."

Reviewer 6: I don't think we can underestimate unless something about other transactions changes after our calculation. That is not unique to our situation, though.

  a5link="https://bitcoincore.reviews/26152#194"

  q6="The `MiniMiner` is given a list of UTXOs (outpoints) that the wallet
      might be interested in spending. Given an outpoint, what are its 4
      possible states?"
  a6="It could be a confirmed, or unconfirmed (in the mempool), or unconfirmed
      but already being spent by an existing transaction in the mempool,
      or it could be an outpoint that we've never heard of."
  a6link="https://bitcoincore.reviews/26152-2#21"

  q7="What approach is taken in the \"Bump unconfirmed parent txs to target
      feerate\" commit?"
  a7="This commit is the main behavior change of the PR.
      We take the information we've learned about our UTXOs and change their
      effective values to reflect the amount of fees that go towards bumping
      their ancestry to the target feerate. Then we run coin selection as before."
  a7link="https://bitcoincore.reviews/26152-2#100"

  q8="How does the PR handle spending unconfirmed UTXOs with overlapping ancestry?"

>   a8="After coin selection, we run the fee-bump algorithm again on the
>       _result_ of each coin selection attempt, summing the bump fees;
>       from the difference we can know that we've over-bumped due to
>       shared ancestry, and give some of the fee back to the change
>       output (increase the change value, or add a change output)."

Reviewer 2: Looks pretty much correct to me. This might be slightly more precise:
```suggestion
  a8="After coin selection, we run a variant of the MiniMiner algorithm
      on the _result_ of each coin selection attempt to get an exact bump fee.
      If we have over-bumped due to shared ancestry, we can reduce
      the fees by increasing the change value if it exists, or adding a
      change output if it doesn't."
```
